This is the version 0.1 release of Tabfmt, a software tool to format a
table, written by Claudio Jolowicz.

$Id: README,v 1.1.1.1 2009/07/16 02:17:25 reynolds Exp $

Tabfmt is a command line utility to format tabular data. The program
reads lines from one or more files or from standard input, breaks the
lines into fields given a set of input field delimiters, and prints a
table with constant-width columns to standard output or a specified
file. Minimum and maximum field widths, left and right padding, as
well as the characters used for filling, padding and delimiting the
fields can be specified.

This program is meant to integrate well with the standard UNIX
utilities for text manipulation. It is specialised in a simple,
everyday task which is usually too bothersome to implement in shell
scripting. While tabfmt currently formats the table using plain text,
extensions may include output in other formats such as HTML, LaTeX,
Texinfo, or XML languages.

The program was originally written for a GNU environment, but should
build and run on a wide variety of platforms thanks to the GNU
autotools and a portability library which is compiled and linked as
needed (gnulib). It has been successfully built on GNU/Linux, FreeBSD
and NetBSD. The program provides support for localisation using the
GNU gettext package; a German language translation has been provided
by the author. The package contains a preliminary test suite.

If you got the Tabfmt source code via CVS, please run ./autogen.sh in
the top-level directory to make sure that you have a complete
development environment.

See the file NEWS for a list of major changes in the current release.

See the file INSTALL for building and installation instructions.

The man page and the Texinfo manual are in the man/ and doc/
subdirectories, respectively.  

Please send all bug reports by electronic mail to:

  tabfmt-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

For more information, see the project home page:

  http://tabfmt.sourceforge.net

Tabfmt is free software.  See the file COPYING for copying conditions.

README ends here.
